marking system: 
<> marks note to developer, usually things should take care of or features should be added to this project.

chapter 1 Overview
1. Shengji is a multiple-player card game. It's usually a 4-player game, using 2 identical regular decks of cards (each deck is 54 cards, 4*13 number cards and 2 differentiable jokers). There are variations with other number of players or number of decks. If not specified, the game discussed in the rest of this article is always the most common 4-player and 2-deck game. <only develop for the default variation for now>
    1a. Each card in a regular deck has 2 natural properties: suit and rank. <suit and rank are all strings> <suits are lower-case letters, and ranks are capital letters or numbers>
    1b. The four suits of a regular deck are equal by default (different from bridge, where they are ranked). However, there is a variation, where suits are ranked s-h-c-d from high to low in the dealing phase (defined below). <user should be able to choose between these variations before creating a game>  When referring to the suits (and the rest of this article), single lower-case characters is used. <when sorting cards in UI, always do circulating sequence s-h-c-d-s-h, will be discussed below>
    1c. The ranks of number cards, from high to low, are A, K, Q, J, then 10 through 2. When referring to the rank 10, a single capital letter "X" is used instead of the 2-character string "10". <the rank 10 needs additional style in UI>
    1d. The 2 differentiable jokers are named "big joker" and "small joker" respectively, and referred by "W" and "V" in plain text <and UI for now>. As named, W is higher than V. Their suits are "w", and ranks are just defined as "W" and "V". V is higher than A.
    1e. A card carrying points is called counter. In Shengji, all cards of ranks 5, X, and K are counters. Each 5 is 5 points. Each X or K is 10 points.
    1f. A pair of cards refers to two cards with same suit and same rank.
    1g. Note that duplicates of cards (same suit and rank) are not identical, although they have the same value in the game. Think about mixed two decks in real life, you have one duplicate of each cards, if you hold both duplicates, you are holding two cards instead of one. Therefore, in a set, same-valued cards are allowed (you can let them carry invisible indices to differentiate them). In the default 2-deck variation, there can be at most 2 same-valued cards for each kind in any sets.
2. The 4 players play in 2 teams. Each 2 players across the table is one team. 
3. The game is usually played in a counter-clockwise (CCW) sequence, namely South-East-North-West. CCW is set as the default game advancing sequence. <there should be a checkbox in settings to switch the direction real-time, even in an ongoing game>
4. Different position systems
    4a. Natural positions (aboslute positions): South, East, North, West. <assigned when the game is created and will not change until the end of the game>
    4b. Relative positions (relative to self or the observed player): Reference, Afterhand, Opposite, Forehand
    4c. Frame position (see below)
    4d. Round position (see below)
5. A game consists one or multiple frames. A frame is a period, in which players are dealt cards once and play up the cards dealt (like one table in bridge).
    5a. There are 2 modes of games: ascending mode and separate mode. In ascending mode, results of previous frames determine parameters of current frame. In separate mode, all frames are unrelated, players just play them in a row. The default and most common mode is ascending mode, which is discussed in the rest of this article if not specified.
    5b. In ascending mode, both teams have their levels. A level is a specific rank, not being W or V. 
    5c. Separate mode is usually used in matches. <only develop for ascending mode for now>

chapter 2 Game properties
1. In each frame, there is one specific player to be zhuang. Zhuang is usually determined by the result of the last frame. 
    1a. In the first frame, or some rare exceptions, zhuang is not defined at the beginning of a frame. This kind of frame is a qiangzhuang frame.
    1b. Frame position (relative to zhuang): Zhuang (or pivot), You (or successor, zhuang's afterhand), Qian (or ally, zhuang's partner), Zuo (or predecessor, zhuang's forehand) <in old codes, I used zhuang/you/qian/zuo as names, but you may switch to pivot/successor/ally/predecessor if they are more accessible to readers>
2. The level of the frame is the level of zhuang's team.
    2a. Cards of the same rank as the level of the frame are called level cards or levelers.
    2b. In the first frame of each game, both teams have the level of 2 by default. While there are variations using different schemes. <make it possible to set starting levels when creating a game>
3. There may or may not be a trump suit in each frame. The frame is called suited frame if trump suit exist, or no-trump-suit (NTS) if not. The information telling the trump suit condition is called strain or denomination, which takes value from the set {"s", "h", "c", "d", "nts"}. <"nts" can be "n" in short, if more convenient>
    3a. Sorting order of suits. If the frame is NTS, suits are sorted as s-h-c-d. If the frame is suited, suits are sorted from the trump suit in a cycling sequence of s-h-c-d. For example, if the trump suit is h, the suits are sorted as h-c-d-s. <this is online game only. not a requirement for in-person games>
4. The zhuang's team is considered the defending side, and the opponents the attacking side. The scoring of a frame shows points won by the attacking side.
5. Each frame consists of dealing phase, basing phase, playing phase, and counting phase, in sequence.
6. Divisions. In a frame, cards are divided into divisions. <in the default configuration, always sort hands by division. In the future, maybe enable the choice from auto-sort or no auto-sort, but for now, no need>
    6a. The union of jokers, levelers (null if the level is not specified), and cards in the trump suit (null if NTS or strain not determined) construct the trump division. Cards in the trump division are called trumps.
    6b. Cards out of the trump division, called plain cards, are divided into divisions by suit. These divisions are called plain divisions.
    6c. Divisions may be dynamic in the dealing and basing phase, as declarations set or change the strain (see below) and in some variations <don't need to take care of this kind of variations for now>, level can change in qiangzhuang frames. However, divisions are fixed till the end of the frame once both level and strain are set. In particular, divisions are always fixed throughout the playing phase.
    6d. Sorting order of divisions. The trump division is always the first. The plain divisions are sorted according to their suits.

chapter 3 Dealing Phase
1. The dealing phase is when cards are dealt to players and trump suit is declared initially.
    1a. In online games, cards are dealt one-by-one for each player, with a separation of 0.5 sec. Every second, all players are dealt one card at the same time.
    1b. Dealing stops when everyone gets 25 cards, leaving 8 cards undealt.
    1c. Stay in the dealing phase for 5 more seconds upon finishing dealing. This is the last call for declaration. <show countdown in the UI> After this, the frame moves to the next phase.
2. In the dealing phase, players can make declarations. Players can declare a trump suit by exposing a leveler or a pair of levelers of the declared suit, or declare NTS by exposing a pair of jokers. Declaration sets the strain of this frame.
    2a. Declaring with a single leveler is called single declaration, and with a pair, double declaration.
    2b. After a declaration, players other than the declarer of the last declaration can make double declarations to overcall. Double declarations can override any single declaration. NTS declarations are always non-single and can override any suited declaration, and declaration with WW can override VV. However, suited double declaration cannot override another suited double declaration in normal variation. In other variations, suited double declarations are ranked as s-h-c-d and higher ones can override lower ones. <users should be able to choose when creating a game>
    2c. To handle multiple-deck variations, we set that triple declaration, of any kind, can override any double declaration, and quadriple ones can override triple and doubles, etc. <no need to do it now>
    2d. In qiangzhuang frames, the zhuang is also determined in the dealing phase. The last declarer in the dealing phase is zhuang of this frame.
    2e. Overcalls in the dealing phase don't follow the advancing sequence. Players can overcall anytime, as long as they have the levelers or jokers.
3. At the end of the dealing phase, if any declaration appeard, the strain is set by the last declaration.
    3a. By default, the strain determined in the dealing phase is non-alterable. However, in other variations, overcalls can still be made in the basing phase. <users should be able to choose when creating a game>
4. If no declaration is made in the dealing phase, the strain is automatically set to NTS by default. In other variations, it's random, or the suit of the 3rd undealt card (NTS if "w"). <user can choose> <if use the 3rd-undealt variation, show that card to the table> 
    4a. That the automatic strain can never be overwritten in any variations is non-negotiable.

chapter 4 Basing Phase
1. In each frame, there is a base area (or dipai) containing 8 cards. They are initially the 8 cards not dealt in the dealing phase, called initial base. Base cards are not visible to players until counting phase, except specific player who is allowed to touch them.
2. At the beginning of the basing phase, the zhuang pick up the 8 undealt cards <at this time these initial base cards simply merge into zhuang's hand cads, as there's no need to distinguish them from dealt cards>. Then zhuang choose 8 cards from hand to make the new base (called the primary base). 
3. Upon making the primary base, in default game, the frame moves forward to the next phase. <user can choose the variations below>
    3a. In some variations, overcall can be made after setting the primary base by players who is neither zhuang nor the last declarer. The overcaller, also can be called overbaser, grabs the primary base and make a new 8-card base. Upon that, the overbasing sequence can go on, player other than the last declarer can make overcall and make base, until everyone agrees with the strain.
        3a-1. There's one sub-variation, in which the partner of the last one who made the base can only overcall but can't make base.
        3a-2. In these overbase variations, the suits are always ranked.
        3a-3. The post-dealing overcalls should follow the advancing sequence. A player can't make post-dealing overcall before his forehand saying pass.
4. When the base is set, the frame moves on to the next phase. In the playing phase, only the one who made the final base can check it. <there should be a button on the final baser's interface. cliking on it shows the base.>

chapter 5 Playing Phase
1. The playing phase is the phase when players play up all their hand cards.
2. The cards are played in rounds (like bridge). In each round, one player (called leader) leads the round, then others follow in sequence. When all 4 players had played, the round ends and the next round starts.
    2a. The second player in the round is called the second seat ("2nd-seat" in short), so as the third and fourth player.
    2b. Zhuang is the leader of the first round. The winner of the round, who played the highest card in this round, leads the next round (if hands are not empty yet). See below for how to compare moves in a round.
    2c. The winner of the round wins all counters played in this round. If the winner comes from the attacking side, the points add to the frame score. <real-time display the frame score> <there should be a button that's available to everyone, on which a click shows all counters (suit and rank) won by the attacking side in this frame.>
3. The lead transfers between the two sides. Ending refers to the period from the last round in which the attackers turn on-lead to the last round if the playing phase ends with a round won by the attackers. If the last round is not won by the attackers, then the ending is null. For example, if the attackers win only the last round and lose others, the ending refers to the last round; if the attackers win the last 4 rounds and lose the rest, the ending is then the last 4 rounds.
4. In the playing phase, the cards are divided into divisions according to the level and strain. The cardplay goes by divisions and orders (see below) instead of suits and ranks.
    4a. Divisions revisited. The trump division consists of all jokers, levelers, and cards of the trump suit in a suited frame. In NTS frame, it only consists of jokers and levelers. All cards in the trump division are trumps. Other cards are divided by suits into plain divisions. Divisions are labeled either in lower-case single characters (trump is "t") or numbers. <sort hand cards by divisions, trump first, then plain divisions in cycling suit sequence>
        4a-1. In a suited frame, the leveler in the trump suit is called the major leveler (labeled "T"), and others the minor leveler or plain leveler (labeled by upper-case single letters of their suit label). When NTS, all levelers are plain levelers.
    4b. The order of a card describes how high the card is. In plain divisions, the order starts from 0 for the lowest ranked card (2 if not in level 2), to 11 for the highest ranked card (A if not in level A). Note that cards with neighboring order can have a gap of 2 in ranks due to the missing of leveler in plain divisions. In a suited frame, the orders of W, V, T, and plain levelers are 15, 14, 13, 12, respectively. The rest of the trump division follows the same ordering as plain suits. In a NTS frame, W and V are 15 and 14, and all plain levelers are simply 13. 
    4c. Two cards are consecutive only if they are in the same division and have neighboring orders (difference is 1). Note that two different plain levelers are not consecutive.
5. A lead must be a set of single-divisioned card(s). It may contain a single card, or multiple cards that form a multiple-card element or multiple elements. Followers must follow division if possible, and when following division, one must follow type if possible. This is called basic rule of follow. (see chapter 6 for details)
    5a. Leading a single element has no restrictions. The leader can lead any single element.
    5b. The basic rule of follow has the highest priority for followers.
    5c. As a follower, to play cards that are higher than all previous moves in the same round is to cover; to not cover and not following division (including partially following division) is to discard. To cover a plain-division lead with an all-trump combination is to ruff (see below).
6. A multiple-element lead is called a multiplay. A multiplay is valid only if for each element e_x and for each of the other players p_y, e_x is no lower than any possible elements in the same division and type in p_y's hand. Players other than p_y can't see p_y's hand, so this judgement is done by the referee <in online games, the server or the host's browser>. 
    6a. If a multiplay is not valid as defined above, it fails. The element(s) that's lower than some potential element(s) in someone's hand is blocked. The leader must lead the blocked element and revoke the rest. 
        6a-1. If multiple elements of the same type are blocked, lead one of the lowest one among them.
        6a-2. If multiple elements are blocked by one player, let the blocking player decide which one to lead.
        6a-3. If multiple elements are blocked by different players, the decision priority from high to low is 4th-seat, 2nd-seat, 3rd-seat. The one who decide is the actual blocker.
        <always show the actual blocker to the table. this information should be public.>
        <show the full multiplay, highlight the actual blocked element to the table at the lead, stay for 1 sec, then move the revoked cards to the leader's area so other players can see, leaving only the led cards on the table. in the leader's UI, the revoked cards should be highlighted, but still sorted normally in hand with all other cards.>
    6b. After the failed multiplay
        6b-1. (3rd-seat-low rule) In the same round, the 3rd-seat must not cover by default.
        6b-2. (forehand-control rule) The leader's revoked cards will be exposed to the table until they are played up. When the leader must follow the exposed division, the leader's forehand decides which cards that must be played or which cards that must not be played.
        6b-3. The above rules can't override the basic rule of follow. For example, if the failed leader has only one card, which is exposed, in the division of the current round, he has to play it even though his forehand wants him to hold it.
        6b-4. Variations: multiplay compensation. If a multiplay fails, instead of 3rd-seat-low and forehand-control, multiplay compensation will be deduced from the leader's score. Here "deduce" means to change the frame score in the way that is adverse to the leader, namely, reduce frame score if the leader is attacker, and increase if he is defender. The value of the multiplay compensation is 5 or 10 points times the number of cards or elements revoked. <user choose> <multiplay compensation is stored as a signed number that adds to the frame score in the counting phase>
7. There's one variation in which at the beginning of the playing phase, players can claim crossing before the first lead in suited frames. <user to choose>
    7a. If one player has no more than 5 trumps, he can claim a crossing. The crossing player pick up 5 cards from his hand, containing all his trumps, and cross them to his partner; then the partner cross back 5 cards. All the involved cards are not exposed to the opponents.
    7b. One cannot claim crossing if the partner had already claimed.
    7c. Each team can only claim crossing once in a frame.


chapter 6 Types and Evaluation in the Playing Phase
1. An element is a set of cards. An element can only contain either a single card, or duplicates of consecutive orders. Element is the indivisible object in hand evaluation.
    1a. The volume of an element is the number of cards in it. The span (or lian zhi) of an element is the number of consecutive orders, and the copy (or die zhi) of an element is the number of duplicates. <lianZhi and dieZhi are used in the old code. you may switch to span and copy.>
        1a-1. The copy takes positive integers. When copy = 1, the span can only be 1 <important! take it as what it is>. When copy > 1, span can take positive integers. In the default 2-deck variation, copy = 1 or 2. Volume = span * copy.
    1b. An element is always a combination of cards in one single division. The element's division inherits from cards in it. The element's order is the highest order in its consecutive straight.
    1c. The type of an element is a 2-number pair, (copy, span). Types can be ranked: copy is compared first, and with the same copy, the type with greater span is higher. <note that copy is the more prestigious property>
    1d. Only elements with the same type are comparable. The deciding property is the elements' order. Note the ranking of types is not directly related to hand evaluation.
    1e. Naming convention: type (1, 1) is a single, (2, 1) is a pair, (2, n) n > 1 is consecutive pairs (or a tractor).
    1f. Type A = (m, n) is a subtype of type B = (p, q) if m <= p and n <= q. Element A is a subelement of element B if A is contained in B. 
    1g. A potential (c, s) element of division e in a given set of cards refers to a subset constructed from c copies of each of s consecutive cards in division e in the set of cards, without reuse of cards.
2. Lead and multiplay
    2a. Natural decomposition of a lead. A lead is automatically decomposed into elements in such a way: first, find the potential element of the highest type in the lead; then extract it from the lead (if there are multiple ones, choose the highest one, namely the one with the highest order; if orders are the same, sort by suit with the sorting order defined before; if still tied, use card identity), then find the highest-typed potential element in the rest; continue recursion until the original lead is void. The natural decomposition of a lead is greedy and deterministic, and once an element is extracted, its cards are removed and cannot be reused. The set of these extracted elements is the resolved lead. The decomposition of the lead is natural, fixed and used for all followers in the round.    
    2b. The volume of a lead is the number of cards in it, equaling the total volume of all the elements in the resolved lead.
    2c. The type of a lead is a multiset, including types of each of elements in the resolved lead, and sorted descendingly.
    2d. If sort the elements in the (resolved) multiplay by type from high to low, with the same type sort the order (if the orders are still the same, sort by suit with the sorting order defined before), the top element is the core element of the multiplay. The type of the core element is the core type.
3. The basic rule of follow revisited in details. 
    3a. The amount of cards followed must match the volume of the lead. 
    3b. If the amount of cards in the follower's division is no more than the lead, all of this division should be played, then fill up the gap with cards in other divisions until the amount matches the lead. Below we assume the follower has enough cards in the led division.
    3c. Structural follow procedure. When following an element of type (c, s), search potential elements in the led division in the following order: for k = c, c - 1, c - 2, ..., 2 (The search for k stops at 2. The case k = 1 (single cards) is not part of the structural follow procedure and is handled only in the final volume filling step.), and for each k, search j = s, s - 1, s - 2, ..., 1. If any potential (k, j) elements exist in the led division, the player may choose one of them to play <If multiple potential elements of the same type exist, the player may choose any of them; the referee only checks that the chosen one is valid>. After that, the searching stops and the copy bound is updated to k (not c). Recurse the remaining hand with residual requirement (k, s - j). The procedure terminates when the residual span becomes 0. If no potential element exists for any k >= 2, the structural part is empty. This is called the structural follow procedure of type (c, s). For convenience, we use abbreviation SFP(c, s) in this article. <don't need to use the abbreviation in code> <note that for c no more than 2, recursion is not really necessary, but it's a should-do for now to reserve compatibility for multiple-deck variations> The structural part consists of all elements produced by SFP; these elements always have copy ≥ 2.
    3d. When actually following a lead, which is resolved as a type L = {(c_1, s_1), (c_2, s_2), ... } with components sorted descendingly, loop all over L and do SFP(c_i, s_i) in sequence (each step uses the remaining hand after previous steps) to decide the structural part. Finally, any remaining volume gap is filled with arbitrary cards in the led division.
    3e. A follow is legal if the intended played cards admit a decomposition into a structured part and a filler part, such that:
        the structured part is exactly one of the possible structured outcomes of 3c-3d, and
        the filler part consists of the remaining played cards and satisfies the volume and division requirements of 3a-3d. 
    For legality checking, the intended follow is not greedily decomposed as a lead under rule 2a. The legality of follow is existential, not canonical. <should be able to judge whether a set of selected cards is a legal follow> <way to judge a follow: find all legal structural follows, and check if the structural part of the intended follow matches any one of them. >


chapter 7 Counting Phase

chapter 8 Timings

chapter 9 Game results

chapter 10 Fouls
